>> Erik Reinert: So let's talk
about the use cases for serverless,
real-time file processing.
So as soon as the file is uploaded in S3,
AWS Lambda can trigger
a function to process it.
This is really awesome for being able to
do things like post processing files,
making changes to files, checking files,
validation, stuff like that.
It allows you to say, okay,
we'll hear from my one little function,
I don't have to create a whole service,
I don't have to figure out how
that service listens for changes,
it's just integrated into the platform.
I can just wait for
Amazon to say, file updated, and
then I can immediately hop in there and do
the thing that I need to with the Lambda.
So real-time file processing is
really powerful with Lambdas and
functions as a service.
Mostly because a lot of these
cloud providers like Amazon,
like Google, have integrations with
these services in other places.
And this can even be queues, distributed
queues can have Lambdas hooked up to
them so that you can have a queue,
drop a payload to a Lambda worker.
And then you only process that one thing
and that's when we start talking about
like how do things communicate
between each other.
That's how Lambdas could potentially
communicate with each other by using
queues and stuff like that.
Real-time stream processing as well, so
perform real time analytics on
data streams using Kinesis.
Things like Kinesis allow you to do
real-time stream processing, and so
using functions as
a service can make it so
that you can handle this in real-time and
then this function just disappears, right?
And this happens per request.
And this can be any time of
real-time stream processing.
This can be video, this can be audio, this
can be text, this can be machine learning.
It really just depends on what you
wanna shove in that function and
let it run for
the period it does before it's done.
So real-time stream processing is really
nice with functions as a service as well.
Who here knows what ETL is?
>> Speaker 2: Extract, transform, load.
>> Erik Reinert: Yep, exactly, yeah.
So ETL is really around like data
manipulation and things like that.
It's not as common as it used to be.
But there are companies like my company,
for example, that still deal with ETL
especially with datasets and
being able to process data properly.
You can extract that data, you can
transform it and then you can reload it.
So for example,
to perform an ETL on demand,
when a new file is uploaded to S3,
AWS can trigger to process that data and
then load it into a database,
that's what an ETL is effectively.
And so, think about every time a piece
of data is loaded onto a S3 bucket,
having to have a service that's
handling that all the time.
Or just have a Lambda that
triggers literally every time and
can scale to the end whenever you need.
The management,
the cost effectiveness are just way
easier than hooking up a service to it.
>> Erik Reinert: Finally websites, as I
mentioned before with Frontend Masters and
a bunch of other websites like Cork.
Websites that are purely static,
HTML,CSS, JavaScript can be served from
S3 directly or other cloud providers,
serverless solutions, right?
And so again, when you're talking about
the costs of running a frontend for
your company,
serverless does become very interesting,
especially if you already
fit these requirements.
If you're basically taking a flat file,
shoving it in a container and
putting Nginx in front of it,
you should move to serverless,
because you're already two
steps on the way there.
The only reason why you have a container
there is just hosting it and
Nginx can process, and serverless can
handle that for you really easily.
As a matter of fact, we do some of this at
HIPAA today and I'm already working with
teams to try and get us out of that so
that we don't have to pay those costs.
We might have circumstances where
teams wanna use, again, Nextjs and
other kind of server side rendering,
things like that, HTMX or whatever.
But if you're purely static, and
you're running that in a container,
you should move to serverless.
There should really be no
reason why you couldn't,
unless you've got other requirements or
stuff like that.